# Diagnosis-of-Schizophrenia-based-on-EEG-signals-using-Spiking-Neural-Networks

Schizophrenia, a chronic psychotic disorder, is a very challenging disease for doctors for prediction as it involves a series of tests and activity analysis. Having Electroencephalogram (EEG) signal data of the patient is one of the most important reports for analysis of the brain activity during such tasks. Since it involves huge amounts of data that corresponds to defining relationships between different parts of the brain, there is a need for computer interference for data visualization and understanding. This leads to bringing in the power of machine learning models that helps in resolving the complexities using mathematical models for better understanding of the correlations in the data features. Our work aims to build a cognitive model such as the Spiking Neural Networks using the EEG data features as the input, that takes the research a step further to closely represent the brain networking for a better prediction of this psychotic disease.
The outcome of our work is an end-to-end system which can be used by labs or hospitals where Schizophrenia is a use case or attended disorder. Our system can assist them to predict the chances of a patient having Schizophrenia using the EEG time series data and Demographics data, with the help of a model built with Spiking neural network architecture. We also provide an option to verify the results with another Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) model using the EEG components data. We also provide another option to visualize the EEG time series data as a graph for a better understanding for the doctors.
